# 概述
To design URLs for an app, you create a Python module informally(非正式的) called a URLconf (URL configuration). This module is pure Python code and is a mapping between URL path expressions to Python functions (your views).

```
django.urls
    | path(route, view, kwargs=None, name=None)
    | re_path(route, view, kwargs=None, name=None)
    | include
        - include(module, namespace=None)
        - include(pattern_list)
        - include((pattern_list, app_namespace), namespace=None)
    | register_converter(converter, type_name)
    | reverse(viewname, urlconf=None, args=None, kwargs=None, current_app=None)
```

# How Django processes a request
1. Django determines the root URLconf module to use. 一般是`setting.ROOT_URLCONF`或`HttpRequest.urlconf`.
2. 加载模块中的`urlpatterns`变量. This should be a sequence of `django.urls.path()` and/or `django.urls.re_path()` instances.
3. Django runs through each URL pattern, in order, and stops at the first one that matches the requested URL, matching against `HttpRequest.path_info`.
4. 加载并执行对应的视图, 并传递如下参数:
    - An instance of HttpRequest.
    - 匹配的未命名的group将转换为位置参数.
    - 命名group和`keyargs`参数将转换为命名参数.
5. If no URL pattern matches, or if an exception is raised during any point in this process, Django invokes an appropriate error-handling view. 

```python
urlpatterns = [
    path('blog/<int:year>/', views.year_archive, {'foo': 'bar'}, name='news-year-archive'),
]
```

> Notes:
> - Captured values can optionally include a converter type. 
> - There’s no need to add a leading slash.
> - 严格区分后划线.
> - The URLconf searches against the requested URL, as a normal Python string. This does not include GET or POST parameters, or the domain name.

# Path converters
- `str`: 默认. excluding the path separator, '/'. 
- `int`.
- `slug`: Matches any slug string consisting of ASCII letters or numbers, plus the hyphen(中划线) and underscore(下划线) characters. 
- `uuid` - Matches a formatted UUID. Dashes must be included and letters must be lowercase. For example, 075194d3-6885-417e-a8a8-6c931e272f00. Returns a UUID instance.
- `path`: including the path separator, '/'. 

# 自定义 Path Converter

```python
# 定义
class FourDigitYearConverter:
    regex = '[0-9]{4}'
    
    # A ValueError is interpreted as no match 
    # and as a consequence a 404 response is sent to the user unless another URL pattern matches.
    def to_python(self, value):
        return int(value)
    # A ValueError is interpreted as no match 
    # and as a consequence reverse() will raise NoReverseMatch unless another URL pattern matches.
    def to_url(self, value):
        return '%04d' % value
           
# 注册
register_converter(converters.FourDigitYearConverter, 'yyyy')
urlpatterns = [
    path('articles/<yyyy:year>/', views.year_archive)
]
```

# Using regular expressions
Use re_path() instead of path().
In Python regular expressions, the syntax for named regular expression groups is `(?P<name>pattern)`, where name is the name of the group and pattern is some pattern to match.

```python
re_path(r'^articles/(?P<year>[0-9]{4})/$', views.year_archive),
```

- Each captured argument is sent to the view **as a string**, regardless of what sort of match the regular expression makes.

> When switching from using path() to re_path() or vice versa, it’s particularly important to be aware that the type of the view arguments may change, and so you may need to adapt your views.


### Nested arguments
As a rule of thumb, only capture the values the view needs to work with and use non-capturing arguments when the regular expression needs an argument but the view ignores it.

```python
urlpatterns = [
    re_path(r'^blog/(page-([0-9]+)/)?$', blog_articles),                  # bad
    re_path(r'^comments/(?:page-(?P<page_number>[0-9]+)/)?$', comments),  # good
]
```

### Specifying defaults for view arguments

```python
urlpatterns = [
    path('blog/', views.page),
    path('blog/page<int:num>/', views.page),
]

def page(request, num=1):
    pass
```

# Customizing error views
Such values can be set in your root URLconf. Setting these variables in any other URLconf will have no effect.

Values must be callables, or strings representing the full Python import path to the view that should be called to handle the error condition at hand.

```python
# page_not_found() 
handler404 = 'mysite.views.my_custom_page_not_found_view'

# server_error() 
handler500 = 'mysite.views.my_custom_error_view'

# permission_denied()
handler403 = 'mysite.views.my_custom_permission_denied_view'

# bad_request() 
handler400 = 'mysite.views.my_custom_bad_request_view'
```

# Including other URLconfs
Whenever Django encounters `include()`, it chops off whatever part of the URL matched up to that point and sends the remaining string to the included URLconf for further processing.
Another possibility is to include additional URL patterns by using a list of path() instances. 
This can be used to remove redundancy from URLconfs where a single pattern prefix is used repeatedly. 

```python
urlpatterns = [
    path('help/', include('apps.help.urls')),
    path('<page_slug>-<page_id>/', include([
        path('history/', views.history),
        path('edit/', views.edit),
        path('discuss/', views.discuss),
        path('permissions/', views.permissions),
    ])),
]
```

# Reverse resolution of URLs
- In templates: Using the `url` template tag.
- In Python code: Using the `reverse()` function.
- In higher level code related to handling of URLs of Django model instances: The `get_absolute_url()` method.

```html
<a href="{% url 'news-year-archive' 2012 %}">2012 Archive</a>
```

```python
HttpResponseRedirect(reverse('news-year-archive', args=(2012,)))
```

> Nodes:
> 1. Putting a prefix on your URL names, perhaps derived from the application name (such as `myapp-comment` instead of `comment`), decreases the chance of collision.
> 2. In addition to the URL name, `reverse()` matches the number of arguments and the names of the keyword arguments.

# URL namespaces
URL namespaces allow you to uniquely reverse `named URL patterns` even if different applications use the same URL names.
A URL namespace comes in two parts, both of which are strings:
1. `application namespace`: This describes the name of the application that is being deployed. 
2. `instance namespace`: This identifies a specific instance of an application. 

> Nodes:
> 1. Namespaced URLs are specified using the ':' operator. 
> 2. Namespaces can also be nested. 

### Reversing namespaced URLs
e.g. 'polls:index'.
1. First, Django looks for a matching application namespace (in this example, 'polls'). This will yield a list of instances of that application.
2. 如果`reverse()`中指定了`current_app`, Django finds and returns the URL resolver for that instance. 
3. If there is no current application, Django looks for a default application instance. The default application instance is the instance that has an `instance namespace` matching the `application namespace` (in this example, an instance of polls called 'polls').
4. If there is no default application instance, Django will pick the last deployed instance of the application, whatever its instance name may be.
5. If the provided namespace doesn’t match an `application namespace` in step 1, Django will attempt a direct lookup of the namespace as an `instance namespace`.

### URL namespaces and included URLconfs
Application namespaces of included URLconfs can be specified in two ways:
- set an `app_name` attribute in the included URLconf module, at the same level as the `urlpatterns` attribute. You have to pass the actual module, or a string reference to the module, to `include()`, not the list of `urlpatterns` itself.
- Secondly, you can include an object that contains embedded namespace data.
The instance namespace can be specified using the `namespace` argument to `include()`. If the instance namespace is not specified, it will default to the included URLconf’s application namespace. This means it will also be the default instance for that namespace.

# Writing views

A view function, or view for short, is a Python function that takes a web request and returns a web response.

```
django.http
	| HttpRequest
	| HttpResponse
		| HttpResponseNotFound
	| Http404

django.shortcuts
	| render
```

## Customizing error views
Specify the handlers in your `URLconf` (setting them anywhere else will have no effect).

# View decorators
Django provides several decorators that can be applied to views to support various HTTP features.

```
django.views.decorators
	| http // 控制请求方法, 缓存行为
	| gzip
	| vary // 缓存key的机制
	| cache // 缓存控制
	| common // 尾部slash可以省略

```

## Allowed HTTP methods
These decorators will return a `django.http.HttpResponseNotAllowed` if the conditions are not met.